I'm John DeTroye,
Senior Consulting Engineer for Apple,
and this afternoon we're going to
be talking about managing clients
in a heterogeneous environment.
What's that mean?
We're going to be talking about
managing clients where we have
Macs and PCs on the net and we
have to take care of everything.
I'm between you guys and the beer bash.
And no, the buses will not
show up until I'm done.
When I wave, they'll bring the buses up.
So don't leave early.
It won't do you any good.
So what we're going to talk
about in the next few minutes,
we're going to talk about
the systems lifecycle,
IT's favorite thing,
some of the tasks involved in that.
We're going to talk about some enterprise
solutions that fit within this task set.
I have some really great customers
here who are going to tell you
about how they've implemented
some of this stuff and how they're
working within the lifecycle frame
with some very good solutions.
And then we'll finish off with a Q&A.
So what is this systems lifecycle?
What is this thing?
It's, for all intents and purposes,
a task-oriented process.
It runs usually yearly,
and it involves the
idea of you evaluating,
deploying, and managing systems.
If we break that down,
it's the evaluation phase that
we go through every year of,
what do I have, what do I have to do,
how many of the different tasks
that my IT department has to
handle are handled internally,
externally, and so forth.
How much manpower do I need
to get this job done?
How often am I going to perform
the different tasks in the cycle?
And am I getting paid enough to do this?
So then we deploy, yeah, no.
Next year I'll fix the
slide so it just says no.
The images,
how many images do you deploy?
How many different sets?
And how many different systems do you
manage for deployment at each cycle?
How often or how much of your
deployment is done manually?
The seat of the pants, you know,
people running around with gobs of
FireWire drives or DVDs and so forth.
How much of it is done completely off
a network where you just sit back,
push the button, and let it go?
How much of it is done just one of those,
you know, run down the hall and quick,
it's a VP, fix this system.
And how often do you go through this?
Some sites do it every year.
Some sites do it every week.
Some sites do it every day.
Some people just say, you know what,
we're not updating anything.
We went through enough of this.
We're going to just do it, you know,
whenever a machine breaks,
we'll do an update.
And then the biggest piece of
the pie is the management part.
Maintaining and supporting
this whole environment.
And what we have to deal
with there is the idea of,
are we going to centralize
all this systems management
or do I have different sites,
school buildings, campuses,
and so forth that I can
deploy this stuff out to?
Can I spread it out?
Simple things like
handling password changes.
You know, if I have, on a Monday morning,
if I have 40 different sites to
deal with and I have the average of,
you know, two or three people per
site forget their password,
how do I quickly get all those
passwords reset and reorganized?
And for those of you that are
dealing in K-12 education,
just picture the third-grade
teacher in the lab with the
kids sitting there going,
I can't do it.
There's a long time between
IT will get to it and,
oh, by the way, it's done right now.
System software, security updates,
and so forth.
How do you handle that
stuff on a regular basis?
Hardware replacement.
If somebody's system goes down,
do you recover their
data or do you just say,
you know, we told you not to do that?
Who handles help desk?
Do you have a formal help desk operation?
What about workflow management?
Do you actually have a process
electronically doing things?
And that could be anything
from an ad agency's workflow of
an entire project all the way
down to just a teacher saying,
you know, how can I get book reports
turned in electronically?
What about managing your assets
and doing license management?
And once again, you just sit there and
look at the clock and then,
you know,
you look at your paycheck and you go.
So when the beach ball stops spinning,
this is what you see.
We have asset management, imaging,
software distribution, remote control,
usage management, license management,
patching, upgrading,
and finally help desk management.
Breaking it down,
if we look at each of these,
just a quick idea and perspective.
Asset management.
Where's my stuff?
We got 52 scanners in last week.
I saw them in the warehouse.
Where are they?
All those USB cameras,
all those FireWire,
the digital cameras you got in
because somebody ordered them and
they needed them and they disappeared
and you got the asset tags on
your desk but the boxes are gone.
Imaging.
How do I deploy functional systems?
How do we ship Macs?
We.
Kitchen table systems, right?
They come equipped with things like,
you know,
Software to manage your finances.
Games to keep you occupied.
Do they actually come equipped with
the stuff that you're going to deploy
them to all your schools or to all
of your employees in the cubes?
Probably not.
So how do we deploy functional
systems when we're done?
Software distribution.
Once I have systems out and
deployed and I upgrade my
software or work with things,
how do I get complete deployment
sets of software put together?
How do I layer stuff on top
of what the core systems are?
Remote Control: One Example:
How Do Teachers Reach Out and
Touch Students?
How does the administrator reach out
and send a message to people and say,
"Hey, here's things that I need done,"
or send a message to somebody,
or observe machines down
in a shared library?
How do I watch it?
Usage management.
How do I preserve the user experience?
User experience preservation
can range from the...
Be your own self on your own computer.
IT guys love that, don't you?
Wouldn't you love to have 51
different completely unique users
doing whatever they want with
their computers at any time?
Or then there's the Klingon approach.
You get text at it.
And we turned off the speech part.
License management.
How do I stay legal?
In education, we always love that.
We get a teacher who
goes to a conference.
Somebody gives them an
NFR copy of a project,
some sort of software to test out.
Say, hey, test this out.
Convince your school board
you need it and everything.
Next thing you know,
there's a thousand copies of it across
the school district and some lawyer from
the company is standing there going,
hmm.
Guess what you just bought?
Patching and upgrading.
Not that we release upgrades
on a regular basis or anything,
but...
You know,
how do I maintain my deployed systems?
And that's back to how
often I go through this.
And then the help desk,
tracking incidents, doing it formally,
actually knowing how many times
different systems had a problem,
you know, how many system freezes,
how many network cards,
how many things went down.
So if we run this through the
cycle throughout the year,
starting today,
let's just use that as an example.
We're going to sit down.
We're going to review everything we have,
look at what we got,
look at our mission statement,
and go back and evaluate
the needs of our users,
right?
Primary purpose, accomplish the mission,
make sure that the users
can get their jobs done.
Teachers can teach.
Students can learn.
The cube rats can do whatever the
cube rats do and go on from there.
Then we determine the hardware
and software required.
And we begin creating images.
Of course,
the part I left out of this was
the great part of we determine the
hardware and software required,
and then we go and beg and plead
for the money to get the stuff,
but that's separate of the IT cycle.
Then we test the configurations,
and hopefully we don't iterate
back and forth to the image
creation too many times.
When we're done,
we've got some images and
we're ready to deploy.
We go out and we get the systems out.
Everybody's happy.
Everybody's all, you know, wow,
the desktops look great.
All the stuff works.
Then we spend the rest of our
lives managing the systems,
and we're sitting there going day to day,
managing systems and doing updates
and repairs and managing systems
and doing updates and repairs,
and all of a sudden,
somebody looks at the calendar and says,
wow, time flies when you're having fun.
So in order to accomplish this,
what we're going to talk about
today is some lifecycle task
solutions from the enterprise side.
These are some commercial solution
providers that do something unique.
Over the last couple of years,
we've talked about lots of
different solution providers.
Today, what we're going to talk about
specifically is these are four companies
that support Macs and Windows machines
in an environment where we can have
an OS X architecture from top to bottom.
OS X server-based.
Even if they offer a Windows Server base,
but they also offer OS X Server base
solutions that have OS X Admin,
OS X Client, and they support Windows.
The four companies we're going
to talk about are Sassafras with
their K2 License Management Suite,
FileWave with FileWave and Asset
Trustee Jamf with their Casper Suite,
and LandRev with the
LandRev Management Suite.
K2, Key Auditor and Key Server.
What do they do?
Well, from the task of asset management,
what we can do is perform complete
inventories of all the software
that I have on my PCs and my Macs.
I can see everything that's
on all of my systems,
every single executable.
I can also go back and I can perform
incremental scans based on time.
I can say once a week,
just check and make sure nothing new has
shown up and so forth on my machines.
And I can create reports from this.
And we have web-based and
console-based reports.
We can host the process,
the database that stores this on
a bunch of different machines,
OS X, Windows, Linux, or even NetWare.
From a usage management task perspective,
supporting multiple groups and divisions
or sets of computers out there,
and the applications are
location independent,
so when we scan for the applications,
it doesn't necessarily have to
be in the applications folder.
We'll pick up things in somebody's
home directory and so forth.
We can deny access to
unauthorized software,
and we can schedule usage of
software and reserve use of
software based on the needs of the
site or the needs of the users.
We can do software deployment
and usage reports and go back
and see what's been deployed and
what's in use at any one time.
From a license management perspective,
we can centrally deploy and
manage software licenses.
Big deal of being able to say,
I've got unlimited site licenses,
I want to track those.
I've got node lock licenses.
This computer is allowed
to run this software,
I want to track that.
Or a concurrent use license,
a floating one.
I have 30 licenses for this,
and I've got 500 different machines.
So 30 people at any one
time can run the software.
We can also manage multiple profiles
for the exact same application.
So we have different versions of an
application deployed based on licensing
and purchasing plans and so forth.
We can have different license management
for different versions of the same
app and manage and reclaim software
licenses that have been dumped where
somebody is no longer using the software.
They've stopped running it and
we can check and see it's not in
use anymore so we can reassign
that license to someone else.
Lots and lots of reporting.
Make management really happy.
Look, we're in compliance.
Help desk management,
being able to do audits of the hardware,
know where your stuff is,
and let the help desk guys know what
types of machines they're working on.
And then being able to do role
and scope-based administration,
basically looking at it from
a task perspective or from,
you know,
I want to know if this task is being
met or if all the computers in a
single office are meeting the criteria.
There's a widget for it to be
able to go and look at stuff,
web reporting, and RSS report feeds.
FileWave has Asset
Trustee and FileWave itself.
From an asset management perspective,
what we've got is the ability
to automatically gather and
store all the information about
our hardware and software,
complete asset management.
The client itself will actually initiate
the scan and then report back to the
server for storing of the data later on.
And OS X Server is very
well supported with this.
License management, maintaining data on
our license compliance.
How many licenses do we have deployed?
Where is it being used?
How many do I have that
I have to watch out for?
And working with FileWave,
the application,
if you find somebody that's
installed licenses or installed
software where they shouldn't,
FileWave can go out and just very
nicely remove the application
from that machine saying,
no, no, no, you're not allowed.
From a software distribution perspective,
what FileWave allows me to
do is create a file set.
And these are self-healing
sets of applications where
I put them out on a machine,
and if anybody messes with it,
somebody tears out the help
folder or removes a piece of an
application bundle or whatever,
the file set itself will actually
go back and pull down all the rest
of the contents and replace itself
and heal the set that I've sent
out to the different computers.
We can create snapshots to do baseline
imaging and then add layers of file
sets on top of that where we layer on,
you know, here's what the teachers need
above what the students need,
here's what the admins need,
here's what the accounting guys need
over top of what the secretaries need,
and so forth and so on.
From a patching and
upgrading point of view,
you can also scan the computers based on
the asset trustee information and say,
hey, these computers need all
of these different updates,
so let's build a set for
these and deploy that.
And we can associate that set of
computers that comes back from the report
with an upgrade or a patch file set.
And then also look at the reports
and get real-time data back of who's
been upgraded and who hasn't so that
we can keep track of the machines.
Maybe somebody keeps turning certain
machines off and we have to go after
them to make sure they've been upgraded.
FileWave is also integrated with ARD.
There are several tasks
you can actually run,
such as installing a FileWave client
automatically using ARD or running
post-flight scripts with the FileWave
client to be able to do updates.
Casper from Jamf Software.
From an asset management perspective,
what Casper gives us is the ability
to create reports using either their
recon application or the Casper
application itself for Mac OS 8,
9, 10, and 11.
and Windows systems.
I can go out and I can
do different levels.
I can establish different levels
of administrators and give them
access to different types of data
depending upon who it is that I need
to scan for this at a building level,
at a district level, at a site level,
campus level, and so forth.
And I can create scheduled reports
or triggered reports based on a
certain criteria on that machine.
From an imaging and software
distribution point of view,
I can create software
distribution packages,
literally point and click,
snapshot a machine,
install a bunch of stuff, click a button,
and it creates an installer kit for me.
And the configurations are entirely
based on what I need on that specific
class of machine for my users.
And the packages that I create
can be in Casper format to
be handled by Casper itself,
or I can create PKGs that I can use
for deployment at another point.
So if you have Vice installers
and a bunch of other drag-and-drop
installers and so forth,
you go and do all that,
and when you're done,
I can create a single package installer
or a Casper installer package from
all of those different pieces and
have a single unified package.
From a remote control perspective,
Casper supports the ability to do
VNC support with SSH tunneling.
I can also do things such as scheduling
and running remote Unix commands,
reset local passwords,
and flush caches on a system,
fix permissions, and so forth.
From a license management perspective,
I can maintain a complete database of all
licenses that are deployed in my systems,
and I can also go search for
things that I need to check on,
such as, you know, do I have all the
correct fonts available,
all the correct plug-ins for
my different applications,
do I have all the correct
sub-apps that I need to launch.
And when I'm done,
I can go back and view the
results of that and say,
I want to look at it
specifically by the application,
or I want to look at it by
a specific type of system,
like, you know,
are all my iBooks current.
From a patching and
upgrading point of view,
when I create my patches
or my upgrade sets,
I can do that and I can make
it completely unattended.
I always keep saying unintended,
but sometimes that happens too.
The unattended upgrades,
behind the scenes,
the user doesn't know it's happening.
It just goes out there
and makes it happen.
I can create different sets
based on different computers,
such as my G5s versus my G4s
versus my Intel boxes and so forth.
LandRev.
The LandRev Management Suite.
Asset Management.
Real-time or scheduled periodic
updates of all of my inventory.
Where's my stuff?
and the ability to take and create custom
reports by just dragging and dropping all
the different data criteria into columns,
and I can just create custom reports
automatically for anybody to view.
From an imaging perspective,
one of the really fascinating
things I can do here is a complete
user unaware installation.
I can completely upgrade a
system or install an entire
system underneath a user while
they're operating the computer.
And then I send them a quick
message on the screen and say,
oh, by the way, I need to reboot you.
You've just been upgraded to Leopard.
And I can take those disk image sets
that I'm using and I can edit those
offline and edit them in place and
then just go ahead and throw those
back into the fray if I decide,
you know, like perhaps we ship, you know,
a dot update.
Software distribution,
patching and upgrading all
fall together in the task set
with being able to literally
deploy any installation content.
PKGs, MSIs, EXEs, the MSP formats,
all of the different formats for all the
different installers that are out there.
Mac and Windows,
all together in the same environment.
To be able to do bandwidth throttling,
I know that we can't all wait
until 10 o'clock at night
to do a lot of this stuff,
but then during the day,
turning it on full bore leaves the
phone ringing with everybody screaming,
the internet's down, right?
One of my favorites.
You go and look out the window, well,
it looks okay to me.
[Transcript missing]
A schedule for those things to go out
when less people are on the network.
And literally to be able to create
a one-click patch management.
I just bring everything in and click,
say, create a patch upgrade,
create a kit from this.
From a usage management perspective,
I can track user patterns.
Who's using what software at what time?
[Transcript missing]
From a license management perspective,
I can monitor all my application usage.
I can make sure everybody's
staying straight.
Nobody's snuck off to Walmart and
installed something they
shouldn't have on the company
network or on the classroom lab.
I can track the per-seat and
concurrent license usage,
and if the application supports it,
I can track all sorts of extra details,
such as the installation date,
the activation date of the software,
what the serial number is,
and volume license information.
If the application supports that,
I can make that happen, too.
I can also track and
manage missing software.
If somebody goes in and says, hey,
I need to clean my machine up
so they remove a whole bunch
of stuff from the machine,
I can go back and say, hey,
get a flag that says a
bunch of stuff's missing.
Let's take care of that.
So with that,
what I want to do is bring some
much brighter people up here to talk
about how they've actually deployed
this software in their environments.
And I have four really good
customers with me here today.
Jim Phillips from the
University of Pacific,
Mike Kneebone from the
Metropolitan School District of
Washington Township,
Josh Kaiser from Cabela's,
and Ted Colgate from TBWA Worldwide.
And I'm going to bring them each up
here and give them a few minutes to
tell you about what they're doing
from their solution perspective.
So let's start with Jim Phillips.
I'm Jim Phillips,
and I'm the Director of Educational
Technology Services at the
University of the Pacific.
It's a private institution
with about 6,000 students
spread over three campuses.
We have a dental school
right here in San Francisco.
We've got a nice law
school in Sacramento.
And then the rest of our
academic units are in Stockton,
California, beautiful Stockton,
California,
where we have a school of education,
an undergraduate college,
a conservatory of music,
a school of engineering
and computer sciences,
our school of business,
a school of pharmacy,
and a school of international studies.
We also have libraries,
which are big users of technology.
With regard to support,
we use a decentralized model.
We have local technology support
working with the central IT office.
And some of the academic units don't
quite have enough money to have the
local technology support people,
so they come directly to our central IT.
directly to our central IT.
With regard to faculty and
staff machines that we support,
San Francisco and Sacramento are
entirely Windows-based.
There's about 420 PCs in
San Francisco and another
275 PCs in Sacramento.
Down on the Stockton campus,
we have a mix of platforms,
2,000 Windows PCs, another 300-plus Macs,
about 200 thin clients that use
four terminal servers centrally.
And then there's a smattering
of Linux and Unix users,
primarily in the School of
Engineering and Computer Sciences.
There's growing interest in thin
client for security reasons,
and also among our students,
there's growing interest in Macs.
So our problem was when I arrived
three years ago is we weren't
leveraging our concurrent licenses.
We were purchasing the
licenses with one-time money.
Often we had outdated versions.
And I really wanted to
operationalize the expense,
and when we bought the license,
I wanted to make sure we got on
the maintenance contract as well.
So we needed a way to track usage
of our concurrently licensed
software such as Acrobat,
Dreamweaver, and Photoshop.
At the local level,
our technology support providers
also wanted to track usage of their
discipline-specific applications,
and sometimes these were purchased
in very small concurrent license
quantities or even individual licenses.
And did I mention that
we were understaffed?
So for us,
the Sassafras solution was a good one.
We were existing K2 users,
but we were underlicensed for
a three-campus deployment,
and we wanted to maintain our ability to
control our centrally licensed software
while extending the possibility to
the local technology support people
to manage their licenses as well.
And Sassafras actually worked
with us to develop this in
their newest version of K2 6.1.
It's the role-based
administrative feature.
So we were able to resolve many of
our issues and we're actually able to
do it in less time with fewer people.
And we plan to deploy on a larger
scale this year and enable the local
technology support people to have the
administrative access that they need.
In addition to the license management,
there are huge benefits for our security
officer who can now do auditing and he
can also quickly notify specific users if
they are using a vulnerable application.
So in conclusion, the usage reports are
going to be very useful.
We're going to know what
we're currently using.
That's going to help us to predict
what we're going to need in the future.
It was good to work with Sassafras.
They provide great support,
and they were willing to change
something in a newer version
just because we wanted it.
So that was kind of refreshing, you know,
to have our needs addressed.
And it can often seem
like no one's listening,
but in this case,
they listened and they changed it.
So we're really going to look forward to
this role-based administrative feature,
and we'll be deploying it again,
like I said, this year.
And Sassafras actually dubbed
it the University of the
Pacific feature because I kept
telling them we needed it so badly.
But thank you very much.
That's my story.
Next,
I want to bring up Mike Kneebone from
the Metropolitan School District,
Washington Township to talk
about how much fun it is in
education to be an IT guy.
I'll keep it brief because
you're that close to the beer.
But I am Mike Nevone,
Technology Coordinator in
North Central High School,
Washington Township.
We're based in Indianapolis.
We have 10,000 students
spread across 14 buildings.
It's a fairly progressive township.
Currently,
we're ranked in the top 1.5% in all
public schools in the country and
number one in the state of Indiana.
But we fell into the same kind of
pattern a lot of K-12 institutions did,
where we did a good job
acquiring technology.
We did a great job deploying it,
but really didn't have a long-term
cohesive management plan.
So quickly, we grew to 4,400 clients,
70% Mac, 30% PC.
And every time there
was a major deployment,
we find ourselves going around
and touching every single machine.
Sometimes not even major deployments,
you know, some minor adjustments.
And I'm sure we're unique
in that and that most people
here don't have to do that.
But it was really killing us.
So at the height of my
frustration last year,
Eric Wheatley from Apple introduced
me to Oliver Noss at FileWave.
And they said that their application
would manage all those deployments,
make them self-healing,
worked on both PC and Mac,
would give you a rollback function,
and it was easy to use.
Well, it seemed to hit all of our
problems that we were having,
but it sounded like a brochure,
and nothing ever works
that way in my environment.
So we wanted to install it and run a
test on our machines on our network.
So we ran it for 60 days
in a mixed environment,
and before we decided, yeah,
this is what we need to
deploy across the township.
One of the main problems for me was
that our other applications that
we'd used in the past for similar
operations didn't have support,
were very complicated to use,
a really steep learning curve.
So I find myself the only one
able to deploy these packages,
deploy settings, and I needed something
I could hand off easier.
So now we can have a tech up and running
in about a half a day creating file
sets and deploying software and updates.
One of the other issues was
that our mobile users and
what I'll call lazy users,
because we'd have deployments
scheduled or going out,
and they would tie up a machine
while it's being deployed,
and patient users would just shut it off,
crash it in the middle,
not like it was important.
Or laptop user closes their laptop,
takes it off network,
and either the deployment would fail,
or the
Well, it would fail.
The deployment would fail or they'd
miss the installation altogether.
So now with this client-based setup,
it's a daemon that
runs in the background.
So if the laptop user
closed their laptop,
takes it off the network,
it's not a problem because that
information resides with the client.
When they fire it back up,
it picks up where it left off.
Once it gets the whole file set,
activates it, and it's running.
This also gave us some
unique opportunities.
One was that since it didn't
tie up the machine anymore,
we were able to deploy,
like in our setting,
we deployed iLife 06,
fully installed and customized,
to 30 machines in use,
and our environment took
about an hour and a half.
It also gave us the ability to migrate
to Tiger without touching the machines.
With support,
which has been excellent from FileWiff,
we built a Tiger set,
shot it out to all of our 10.3 machines,
and they reboot into Tiger.
One of the features that I've really
kind of worn out is the rollback.
[Transcript missing]
It's really kind of become like
an extra set of hands for us,
right?
Because now we're able to go and
take care of our business instead
of do all these deployments by hand.
We're literally going to save thousands
of man hours over this next year.
Excuse me.
So...
With that time, I mean,
ultimately our job is education.
And the more we can make our
maintenance transparent to the end user,
the better off we are.
We lose less instructional time.
So we will now be able to not
take down those machines and
tie them up for deployments,
free up our time to support
the teachers and students,
which is really what we're all about.
With that,
I would be happy to answer any specific
questions about our deployment,
too, at the bash later on.
Next, I want to bring up
Josh Kaiser from Cabela's,
and we want to jump into the
business world and see how
the IT guys on that side live,
breathe, and love my little beach ball.
Thanks, John.
My name is Joshua Kaiser.
I'm a Senior Graphic
Systems Administrator at
Cabela's Incorporated in Sydney,
Nebraska.
Just a little bit about Cabela's,
if you're not familiar with us already.
We are a leading multi-channel
reseller of hunting,
fishing, and outdoor goods.
We have really three main venues,
how we deliver goods and
services to our customers.
We have more than 120 million
catalogs a year that we deliver to
50 different states in 120 countries.
We have 15 U.S.
retail locations and 13
more currently announced.
And we have a robust internet presence
to deliver goods and information.
A little bit about our environment.
We have a smaller Mac group that
supports a lot of creative systems,
and we're kind of in among the PC guys,
what I like to refer to as the
greater MIS or the dark side.
Among our group,
we have around 200 Mac workstations
that we are in charge of supporting.
We've got a little over a dozen Xserves.
We also have a handful of PC workstations
and servers that we have to work with.
As far as the configurations on those go,
one of the big challenges that
we've had is we have a lot
of different configurations
in a lot of different areas.
We have 15 unique workgroups.
We have a team of 18 different
locations across the United States and
we have variations from one user to
another within a workgroup depending
on the specific peripherals that user
may have to access or other specific
functions they may have to work with.
So we had a few problems.
We don't like to call them problems.
We like to call them opportunities.
Sometimes it feels like
land of opportunity.
Over the last two years,
we've been making some
changes to how we approach the
workstation management lifecycle.
At the time,
everything that we were doing was manual
when I came in two and a half years ago.
It was literally sit down
in front of a machine,
pop in the install disk, run it,
configure it,
load the next piece of software, run it,
configure it.
And the problems with
this are pretty obvious.
It was entirely too slow.
We had some serious inconsistency
issues with deployments of different
workstations across the user base.
We had really no effective
means of delivering updates
to the deployed machines.
And the time and the efficiency
issues for it were just a nightmare.
We have a fairly small tech group.
There's only five of us to support
basically everything we have to do.
So currently,
our solution is basically Netboot,
Netrestore, the Casper Suite,
and the Software Update Server.
And that gives us some really nice things
that we can do now and not spend near as
much time as what we used to be doing.
We can perform installs
unintended and very quickly.
Installs can occur overnight
while we're not around.
Just come in a little
bit early in the morning,
make sure everything loaded
the way that it should.
We can pre-configure all the
aspects of the user environment.
This is one of the things that I really
love about what we're doing now.
We can actually have a
machine up and going,
installed, configured,
and we don't have to worry about
anything as far as user preferences.
The user is ready to go as soon as that
machine is rebooted and done installing.
That includes the OS,
the settings for the OS,
the software and the
preferences for the user,
and all the custom scripts
that we have associated.
The little automated processes
that the system admins just love
to run on our users' workstations.
We can also maintain all of our
software updates very easily,
make sure that every machine out on our
network gets that latest security update.
I know that's a big issue.
We can also install new packages
while the users are working
without interrupting the user.
We gather recon information about
all of our clients' workstations.
It's really useful to know
what applications are on there,
how much space the users have left.
We can get just this really general
idea of what the environment
among our user base looks like.
And then we also can get
notification on all of those things
and make proactive decisions,
oftentimes before the user even
realizes that there's anything wrong.
Also, we can regularly do a clean install
and refresh those workstations so
we can make sure that the user's
experience is totally up to snuff.
Finally,
and this is one of my favorite things,
we can cache packages
on the local client.
Even if our network goes down,
the client actually has everything
that it needs right there.
All you have to do is reboot,
hit the restore partition,
and you can totally reload
the machine from scratch.
So we can do all of this with
only two base system images.
We have a PowerPC base and an Intel base.
We can do it with minimal staff,
minimal time dedicated
to setup and break fix.
So in conclusion,
over the last two years,
we've been making a lot of changes,
a lot of little tweaks.
I'm really getting happy
with what we have now.
We have a more consistent platform.
We have decreased downtime
for maintenance and changes
on the workstations.
And we actually have a decreased
technical presence among our users.
We're actually running into situations
where our technicians just have to
take the time to get out and mingle
with the users and give them a little,
hey, how are you guys doing?
Just want to let you
know we're still here.
And that's been a pretty
good problem to have.
Thank you.
Next, I want to bring up Ted Colgate.
And I want you to hear from the
IT perspective of the guys that
brought us the 1984 commercial and--
Good afternoon, everyone.
I think I'm the very last speaker
before our Apple beer bash,
so I will be brief.
My name is Ted Colgate,
and I'm the CIO of TPWA Worldwide,
an international advertising agency,
and as John has said, Apple's agency.
Apple and LandRev have asked
me here today to talk a little
bit about desktop management,
and specifically about why
we at TPWA have adopted
LandRev in our environment.
Obviously,
we've had a good experience with LandRev,
or I don't think they would
have invited me here to present.
Let me start by painting you
a picture of our network.
TPWA has over 280 offices in 70
countries with over 10,000 employees.
Our offices are very different in shape,
size, and complexity.
For example,
our office in Norway has about 10 people,
and our office in Paris has over 1,000.
It's hard to say if there's
a typical TPWA office,
but if I had to conjecture,
I'd say it's about 75 people.
And often when I talk to an
IT director of a local office,
I have to remind him or her
that TPWA has more offices than
they probably have employees.
TBWA has grown over the past 20 years
by acquisition and natural growth.
However, we have never opened
an office from scratch.
We find the most creative independent
agency in a local market and we acquire
them and introduce them to the TBWA brand
and TBWA's way of doing business.
However, there is a delicate imbalance
between efficiency and creativity.
So, in order for our offices to
maintain their creativity,
or so I am told,
we don't place too many rules
and regulations on them.
As you can imagine,
this makes my job very difficult.
Instead of mandating my technical
choices to the companies,
I am an ambassador to the local
office to convince them to
spend their hard-earned money,
pounds, rupees,
on the technical solutions
that I recommend.
However, so far,
LandRev has been a well-adopted pick.
We've had installations
from Austria to Germany,
Vancouver, and in the US,
and we're starting to roll out into Asia.
So far, in only a few short months,
2,000 people of our
user base are covered,
and this number is growing rapidly.
Why is this?
Before I talk about why
we went with LandRev,
let's look back at what our issues were.
Let's start with
hardware asset inventory.
If we try to look and see what kind
of asset inventory that we had,
it generally boiled down to how
organized the local IT director was.
I might say, for an example,
this next version of this application
requires that you have 512 megs of RAM.
Do you have that?
And the normal response was,
I need to check,
and it would take about a couple weeks.
With automation, he or she can check it
while we're on the phone.
That's an example of
application deployment,
but probably more common is
the problem of lease returns.
When things come off lease,
we quickly need to locate the hardware,
the peripherals, any other RAM, etc.
that are being returned with the machine.
It can add up to a lot of wasted
money if the IT director hasn't
organized themselves well.
With automation, this is so easy.
However,
probably the biggest reason besides
organization to go with automated
desktop management is time,
saving time,
time organizing the hardware,
the software, the updates, the patches,
you name it.
matches, you name it.
[Transcript missing]
We looked for a package that
had easy deployment of software
and patch management with
several methods to choose from,
including redirecting Apple software
updates and Windows updates,
and even first-time machine provisioning.
I'm still surprised at the number of
companies that still rely on Sneakernet
and manual processes and builds.
We also needed a package that
included not only hardware
and software management,
but also software metering.
LandRev's software administration not
only helps identify licensing issues,
but it reports on illegal software
and can even deny it from launching.
But software metering can even
negate the cost of purchasing desktop
management software in its entirety.
For example,
let's say you're hiring five designers
that need Adobe Creative Suite.
You can scan the network and see that
you might have five people who haven't
launched the software in eight months.
You can reclaim those licenses.
And we just redeploy to the creative
people and save the company $5,000.
And lastly, we needed scalability.
I commented on the fact that a
typical TPWA office is 75 people.
But we have every shape and size
office from 10 to 1,000 employees.
We wanted software that did the same.
We needed software that was
robust enough to cover the
Paris and Los Angeles offices,
while easy enough to understand
and roll out to the Norwegian or
the Bulgarian offices.
That's it.
Thanks.
Let's wrap this up.
From an enterprise client
management perspective,
what we've been trying to focus
on is literally solutions that are
cross-platform but live within the
Mac architecture as its baseline and
could live in the other architectures.
But what I really wanted to expose
everybody to here today is the
idea of software that we can use
Mac OS X servers in the background,
and we can use Mac OS X admins
and Mac OS X clients,
and we also support Windows with this.
So often it's the other way around,
right?
So the tools that we talked about today,
Sassafras software with
their K2 management suite,
FileWave with FileWave and Asset Trustee,
Jamf software with their Casper suite,
and LandRev with the
LandRev management suite.
But they're not alone.
There are a lot of other
solutions out there.
We could have turned this
easily into an all-day exercise.
We could stay.
Many other companies that also do
Mac and PC support where they have the
clients and the ability to handle all
the different systems and do an awful
lot of things that will cover the gamut,
and we just could not begin
to get into all of them.
This is just a sample of them.
And in fact, some of the developers
from these companies,
some of the representatives of
these companies are here today,
and I'll ask them when we finish with
the Q&A if they want to come up towards
the stage in case anybody wants to meet
and greet with them and talk to them.